Release notes for 5.19 (#2289)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.19/release-notes.md

---

## 5.19.0 release notes

> **March 25, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.19.0, is now available for download.

Author: ```suggestion
**March 26, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.19.0, is now available for download.
```

**Release summary placeholder**

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.19.0.

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- ([Commercial feature][122]) In the [web UI][124], you can now [save, recall, and delete filtered searches][123].
- ([Commercial feature][122]) The [health endpoint][125] now includes PostgreSQL health information.

> - **NEED TO REVISIT** ([Commercial feature][122]) Added `contains` as an operator for API response, sensuctl, and dashboard filtering selectors.

Author: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][122]) Added the `matches` substring matching operator for [API response][126], [sensuctl][127], and [dashboard][128] filtering selectors.
```

> - **NEED TO REVISIT** ([Commercial feature][122]) Added agent and sensuctl builds for Linux architectures: `mips`, `mipsle`, `mips64`, and `mips64le` (softfloat and hardfloat).

Author: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][122]) Added agent and sensuctl builds for Linux architectures: `mips`, `mipsle`, `mips64`, and `mips64le` (hard float and soft float).
```

> - **NEED TO REVISIT**  The `sensu.io/managed_by` label is now automatically applied to resources created via `sensuctl create`.

Author: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][122]) Sensu now automatically applies the `sensu.io/managed_by` label to resources created via `sensuctl create` for use in the [`sensuctl prune` alpha feature][129].
```

- Resource metadata now includes the `created_by` field, which Sensu automatically populates with the name of the user who created or last updated each resource.
- The agent now discovers entity libc type, VM system, VM role, and cloud provider.
- System type now includes the `float_type` field, which stores the float type the system is using (softfloat or hardfloat).
- The Bonsai client now logs at the `debug` level rather than the `info` level.
- The store can now create wrapped resources.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu, and all Tessen transmissions are logged for complete transparency.
```

---

## 5.19.0 release notes

> **March 26, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.19.0, is now available for download.

Author: ```suggestion
**March 30, 2020** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.19.0, is now available for download.
```

> This release is packed with new features, improvements, and fixes, including our first alpha feature: sensuctl pruning to help keep your configuration in good order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release is packed with new features, improvements, and fixes, including our first *feature preview* in a release: declarative configuration pruning to help keep your Sensu instance in sync with Infrastructure as Code workflows.
```

> This release is packed with new features, improvements, and fixes, including our first *feature preview* in a release: declarative configuration pruning to help keep your Sensu instance in sync with Infrastructure as Code workflows.

Author: ```suggestion
This release is packed with new features, improvements, and fixes, including our first alpha feature: declarative configuration pruning to help keep your Sensu instance in sync with Infrastructure as Code workflows.
```

- ([Commercial feature][122]) Added agent and sensuctl builds for Linux architectures: `mips`, `mipsle`, `mips64`, and `mips64le` (hard float and soft float).
- ([Commercial feature][122]) Sensu now automatically applies the `sensu.io/managed_by` label to resources created via `sensuctl create` for use in the [`sensuctl prune` alpha feature][129].

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

- ([Commercial feature][122]) The [health endpoint][125] now includes PostgreSQL health information.
- Resource metadata now includes the `created_by` field, which Sensu automatically populates with the name of the user who created or last updated each resource.
- The agent now discovers entity libc type, VM system, VM role, and cloud provider.
- System type now includes the `float_type` field, which stores the float type the system is using (hard float or soft float).
- The Bonsai client now logs at the `debug` level rather than the `info` level.
- The store can now create wrapped resources.
- [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and logs numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu.

> **FIXES:**

Reviewer 2: We're missing one of the fixes:

- Fixed a bug where check history was incorrectly formed when using the postgres event store.

> - [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu, and all Tessen transmissions are logged for complete transparency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu, and all Tessen transmissions are logged locally for complete transparency.
```

> - [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu, and all Tessen transmissions are logged for complete transparency.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and logs numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu.
```

> - [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and logs numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Tessen][130] now collects the type of store used for events (`etcd` or `postgres`) and logs numbers of authentication providers, secrets, and secrets providers. Tessen data helps us understand how we can improve Sensu, and all Tessen transmissions are logged locally for complete transparency.
```

- Fixed a bug where `event.Check.State` was not set for events passing through the pipeline or written to the event log.
- Fixed a bug that allowed the agent to connect to a backend using a nonexistent namespace.
- Fixed a bug that allowed `subscriptions` to be empty strings.
- Corrected the HTTP status codes for unauthenticated and permission denied errors in the REST API.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where check history was incorrectly formed when using the PostgreSQL event store.
```

[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering
[120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/auth/#the-authtest-api-endpoint
[121]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[122]: /sensu-go/5.19/getting-started/enterprise/
[123]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering/#save-a-filtered-search
[124]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/overview/
[125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering

> [128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering

Author: ```suggestion
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering
[129]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#prune-resources
```

[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering
[120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/auth/#the-authtest-api-endpoint
[121]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[122]: /sensu-go/5.19/getting-started/enterprise/
[123]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering/#save-a-filtered-search
[124]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/overview/
[125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering

> [129]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#prune-resources

Author: ```suggestion
[129]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#prune-resources
[130]: /sensu-go/5.19/reference/tessen/
```

[119]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/overview/#response-filtering
[120]: /sensu-go/5.18/api/auth/#the-authtest-api-endpoint
[121]: /sensu-go/5.18/getting-started/enterprise/
[122]: /sensu-go/5.19/getting-started/enterprise/
[123]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering/#save-a-filtered-search
[124]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/overview/

> [125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/

Author: ```suggestion
[125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering
```

> [125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/

Author: ```suggestion
[125]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/health/
[126]: /sensu-go/5.19/api/overview/#response-filtering
[127]: /sensu-go/5.19/sensuctl/reference/#response-filtering
[128]: /sensu-go/5.19/dashboard/filtering
```
